moral foundations questionnaire:


1. It is morally wrong to mistreat one's own body or live unhealthily.
2. Men and women should have equal access to the same opportunities.
3. It should be considered unacceptable for leaders to negotiate with (...people you would personally consider as...) terrorists.
4. It is important for societies to preserve pride in their traditions and heritage.
5. It is wrong to treat someone differently solely based on their race, ethnicity, or caste.
6. Nobody should be denied the ability to reproduce, even those with serious inheritable diseases.
7. It is important for professional environments to uphold formality and diplomatic etiquette.
8. People should always strive to reciprocate any favor they willingly accept from others later on, even when doing so is not expected.
9. It is shameful to purchase something purely based on its luxury status or trendiness.
10. Large societies need hierarchy and established leaders to function cohesively.
11. Casual sex between people who are not in commited romantic relationships should be heavily discouraged.
12. It is important for families to stick together and uphold unity, even when its members do not get along.
13. A society imbued with divinity (belief in religion and/or spirituality) is preferable to an atheistic one.
14. When raising a child, it would be preferable for them to end up kind and lowly, than successful but cold-hearted.
15. It is never justifiable to invade and militarily occupy another country that has not harmed or threatened another.
16. Providing negative feedback to peers should typically be done sparingly and politely, to not offend with bluntness.
17. Certain punishments are so cruel and violent, that even the most evil and dangerous individuals do not deserve them.
18. Society should encourage children to be fully obedient to their parents and defer to their decisions until they reach maturity.
19. There is no end goal noble enough, and no circumstance desperate enough to ever justify directly sacrificing the lives of unwilling innocents.
20. Responsible citizens who are not members of the military or police force should have legal access to basic firearms for self-defense.
21. Those who have earned large amounts of wealth should be obligated to provide some of it towards public welfare and/or less fortunate members of their society.
22. Pursuing the goal of raising a family, and a career that helps achieve this goal is more noble than pursuing a child-free life path.
23. Citizens should never be denied the right to nonviolently assemble and protest in public spaces, even when it is likely to progress into rioting.
24. Ensuring wrongdoers experience discipline through retributive punishment is an essential component of justice and ensuring the proper functioning of society.
25. Protecting the public’s right to privacy from surveillance and espionage should be a greater priority than using said tools to catch terrorists or criminals.
26. Although taste in art, architecture, and style is technically subjective: it is important that a society tries to uphold certain standards of beauty and sophistication.
27. It is preferable for society to promote that people work through their mental health problems by talking about them openly, rather than by trying to hide and ignore them.
28. It is important for countries to pursue a level of economic and military self-sufficiency to avoid dependency on others.
29. It is a sign of a deeply flawed society when someone can inherit a large sum of wealth or power without having to work for it themselves, while others inherit little to nothing.
30. All citizens charged with a crime, no matter how obviously guilty or problematic they are, should have the right to an impartial trial, fair representation, and due process.
31. It is wrong to let friendship obstruct justice (Ex: covering for a close friend who drunkenly performed a hit and run).
32. The primary goal of governments should be to prioritize the interests of their country and those who currently live in it, rather than pursue the wellbeing of humanity at large.
33. A society works best when most of its members share similar values, beliefs, social norms, and mannerisms, with newcomers being expected to assimilate/adopt these values before joining.
34. If an external threat ever attempts to exploit o
ne's homeland and its people, every citizen should be willing to stay behind and sacrifice their life to defend it if called upon.
35. Some people, on the basis of their talent, risk-taking, hard work, and/or contributions, are more deserving of wealth than others.
36. If a citizen enjoys the quality of life, culture, and civilization of their country more than others, they should support actions which increase its external might, power, and influence on the world stage.
37. Certain inanimate objects should be treated as sacred: immoral to disrespect them even when no property damage is done and nobody is around to witness it
(Ex: Doing comedic poses in front of a war memorial).
38. An individual who is well-intended but could be considered a social misfit, weak/timid, and dull-witted, should be given the same courtesy and respect as their peers rather than treated as a burden by society.
39. Mentally sound adults should have the absolute right to decide what they inject into their own bodies, even when it may be detrimental to public health. (This includes both using drugs such as fentanyl recreationally, as well as refusing vaccination).
40. During peacetime, the government should be prohibited from seizing the personal property of a law-abiding citizen (such as a family home) for state planning (such as trying to construct a public railway) without their consent, even if dues are paid in compensation.
41. Democracy, where leadership is determined by public election in which every citizen has a right to vote, is universally preferable to any method of state governance where leadership is appointed from the top down instead.
42. It is distasteful for a citizen to publicly question the technical knowledge of scientists, the bravery of those in dangerous lines of work, or the work ethic of manual laborers, if they themselves haven't acheived similar feats.
43. If the current governing system has proven itself to be competent at ensuring the wellbeing of its citizens: all of its laws should be followed to preserve social stability, including ones that seem arbitrary or that one might disagree with.
44. Certain activities are so disgusting that they are deeply immoral even if completely consensual, physically harmless, and done privately
(Ex: Incest between two consenting adult twin siblings, both of whom are using proper protection)
45. Society is at its most admirable when businesses, schools, and public institutions follow a culture of perfectionism: prioritizing the enforcement of deadlines, punctuality, quality control, and commitment to long-term planning over more flexible or lax systems.
46. It is unethical for the government to place restrictions on what ideologies, beliefs, and opinions can and cannot be expressed within social media and academia, no matter how dangerous they might be considered.
47. It should be considered socially unacceptable for respected, high-status authority figures (such as a publicly renown general, or great scientist) to demand preferential treatment from civil society (such as skipping queues at a hotel).
48. It is preferable for the public to be aware of a hard truth concerning them and have it result in outrage/instability than it is for them to be kept under blissful ignorance.
(Ex: You become the new leader of a country and uncover that a previous ruling government many decades ago secretly experimented on its citizens, and if this information got out, the outrage would be taken advantage of by many radical groups who are ideologically opposed to you)



